#17 shift plugins (#37)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/reference/plugins/developing_custom_plugins.md

Reviewer: Should we align about how we want to present the information to a developer user?
Check #35 to see how I structured the developer's guide. Maybe we can present it to the team to see which way they find it better to present the technical documentation.

Author: Can you be more precise on what you mean with this comment? What structure are you suggesting?

Reviewer: In #35 there's a page specific for developers, which is actually the one that was written when the first draft of the documentation was created. 
In #35 I added a section for developers that contains how to expand Shift and the Shift API. My question was if you had the chance to look at it, as we should aligned on how and where to present the developer's information.

Author: ok so once #35 is merged I will move the code specific section to the dev help part of the docs

Reviewer: This is merged

Author: Done

# Developing Custom Plugins

Shift Plugins are developed as custom *PySide2* classes inheriting from `QtWidgets.QWidget`.

> ## Writing a Plugin Class

Reviewer: I feel there's a missing paragraph about what is the general structure of a Plugin? Even if it is just saying that, as a general rule, it should consist on the logic to build the widget UI and then connect the respective signals. For instance, I would talk about the connectBoardSignals and its intended use at the beginning of the documentation for writing the plugin.

Then, I would indicate to the user that there's examples in the shift folder they can consult for better understanding.

Author: Unfortunately, there is no standard way to do that Julia. Other plugins from ftrack for example have a different method structure. As we do not have an API for plugins, I think it would be meaningless to talk to the user referring to specifically named methods. As there is not restriction on those....
I put a paragraph to explain the logic behind the suggestion of structuring things like that a little later.

Reviewer: Yes, I read the paragraph. What I'm suggesting is to start with the suggested structure at the beginning of the Plug class explanation. It can be clarified that it's not a closed structure but that, generally, you would have the widget UI definition in the constructor and then (as a recommendation) a dedicated method for signals.

Author: done

Reviewer: I think now looks great! I like how you added bullet points and a code example for each step. Thanks!

> Shift's native plugins code, together with a template file can be found in the `shift/plugins` folder. These should serve as a reference for implementing your custom logic and integrating it correctly inside Shift.

Reviewer: I would move this after paragraph in line 9

Author: done

> The Plugin widget class instances will always be parented to the Shift Main Window so a good starting point to look at the API index can be the `shift.ui.widgets.main.ShiftWindow` class to understand how to access objects like: the current board, the current workflow, its operators or workflow variables.

Reviewer: What do you think about this?
```suggestion
The Plugin widget class instances will always be parented to Shift's Main Window. This facilitates access to objects like the current board, the current workflow, operators, or workflow variables. To learn more about how to integrate a custom Plugin into Shift, please refer to Shift's API, especially to the application's main widget `shift.ui.widgets.main.ShiftWindow`.

Author: that's a gread suggestion, thank you!

> The Plugin widget class instances will always be parented to the Shift Main Window so you can start looking at the API index for the `shift.ui.widgets.main.ShiftWindow` class to understand how to access objects like: the current board, the current workflow, its operators or workflow variables.

Reviewer: Make it impersonal.

> Advanced users can code their own way through the Shift Python API, however it is strongly recomended to wrap all your Qt signal connections in a dedicated method (see the `MainWidget._connectBoardSignals` in the *pluginTemplate.py* example file).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Advanced users can code their own way through the Shift Python API, however, it is strongly recommended to wrap all your Qt signal connections in a dedicated method (see the `MainWidget._connectBoardSignals` in the *pluginTemplate.py* example file).
```

Author: done

```python
def _connectBoardSignals(self):
    """Standard method to connect to the current board signals."""

    # The signals to be connected from the board...e.g.
    self.parent().getActiveBoard().workflowExecuted.connect(self._updateContent)
```

This method should be run for all existing and new board tabs for the Plugin to correctly interact with Shift.

## Adding the Plugin to Shift

> The first step to add the Plugin to the Shift UI is to create a *json* file containing the information needed by Shift to source all of your custom Plugin classes. This file should be formatted in the following way:

Reviewer: Make it impersonal

Author: done

```json
{
  "Operators List": {
    "menu": "Tools",
    "path": "./operatorsList.py",
    "class": "OperatorsList"
  },
  "Variables Browser": {
    "menu": "Tools",
    "path": "./variablesBrowser.py",
    "class": "VariablesBrowser"
  }
}
```

> Each Plugin main entry name will define the name displayed by the plugin menu entry in the top bar menu. Then for each plugin entry will need:

Reviewer 2: Can we agree on how to write plugin? In this documentation is written as `plugin` and `Plugin`. We need to define which is the best way to write it.

Author: changed everything to Plugin
done

Reviewer 2: Yes, on this file all are addressed, but please, remember to also change the word in the `docs/reference/plugins.md` file, there are some words still using `plugin` instead of `Plugin`. Thanks!!

Author: done

> - the name of the top menu entry that the Plugin should be added to.
> - the absolute or relative path to the Python file containing the Plugin class
> - the name of the Plugin class to be imported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The name of the top menu entry that the Plugin should be added to.
- The absolute or relative path to the Python file containing the Plugin class.
- The name of the Plugin class to be imported.
```

Shift allows users to add their custom plugins even to native menus. If a new menu name is requested, it will be added to the UI automatically.

> Now that the required setups are ready, the Plugin can be sourced by appending the path to the *plugins.json* file to the `SHIFT_PLUGIN_PATH` environment variable before starting Shift. For example in *Windows*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the .json file is created and populated, the Plugin can be sourced by appending the path to the *plugins.json* file to the `SHIFT_PLUGIN_PATH` environment variable before starting Shift. For example in *Windows*:
```

```cmd
set SHIFT_PLUGIN_PATH=<path_to_the_plugins_json>/plugins.json;%SHIFT_PLUGIN_PATH%

> ```

Reviewer: This might change based on the decision made in issue #39

      self.mainWindow.newBoardCreated.connect(self._connectBoardSignals)
      self._connectBoardSignals()
```

This will automatically connect the board signals to the currently active one and brand new ones.

## Adding the Plugin to Shift

The first step to add the Plugin to the Shift UI is to create a *json* file containing the information needed by Shift to source all of the custom Plugin classes. This file should be formatted in the following way:

```json
{
  "Operators List": {
    "menu": "Tools",
    "path": "./operatorsList.py",
    "class": "OperatorsList"
  },
  "Variables Browser": {
    "menu": "Tools",
    "path": "./variablesBrowser.py",
    "class": "VariablesBrowser"
  }
}
```

Each Plugin main entry name will define the name displayed by the Plugin menu entry in the top bar menu. Then for each Plugin entry will need:

- The name of the top menu entry that the Plugin should be added to.
- The absolute or relative path to the Python file containing the Plugin class.
- The name of the Plugin class to be imported.

Shift allows users to add their custom plugins even to native menus. If a new menu name is requested, it will be added to the UI automatically.

> Once the .json file is created and populated, the Plugin can be sourced by appending the path to the *plugins.json* file to the `SHIFT_PLUGIN_PATH` environment variable before starting Shift:

Reviewer 2: To be aligned with the paragraph at line 55:
```suggestion
Once the *json* file is created and populated, the Plugin can be sourced by appending the path to the *plugins.json* file to the `SHIFT_PLUGIN_PATH` environment variable before starting Shift:
```

Author: done
